# Module 3 - Lab 3 - Exercise 6 - Test the Default eDiscovery Alert

In this exercise you will test a default Microsoft 365 alert policy that notifies all tenant admins, such as Holly Dickson, whenever an eDiscovery search has been created or exported.

**Note:** Creating an eDiscovery alert of this nature is important because an eDiscovery search, when left unregulated, can pull sensitive content that can be exported to an unauthorized source.

### Task 1 – Review the default eDiscovery Alert

In this task, you will verify whether a default Microsoft 365 alert is triggered when somebody in your tenant creates an eDiscovery search or exports data from an existing search. Since Holly Dickson is assigned the Global Admin role, she is automatically a member of the Tenant Admins and will be one of the recipients of this alert. 

1. You should still be logged into the Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) as the **Admin,** and you should still be logged into Microsoft 365 as **Holly Dickson**. 

2. In your **Microsoft Edge** browser, select the **Microsoft 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center** tab.

3. In the **Microsoft 365 Security &amp; Compliance center**, the **Alert policies** window should still be open from the prior task; if not, select **Alerts** and then **Alert Policies** from the left-hand navigation bar. <br/>

4. You want to search through the default system policies for a policy named **eDiscovery search started or exported**. Since there are so many pre-existing system policies, the easiest way to locate the policy is to search for it. In the **Search** field at the top of the screen, enter **eDiscovery**. In the policy list, you should see **eDiscovery search started or exported**. Select the check box next to this policy.

5. An **eDiscovery search started or exported** pane should appear. Scroll down through **eDiscovery search started or exported** pane and verify the settings are configured as follows:

	- Status: **On**
	
	- Conditions: **Activity is eDiscoverySearchStartedOrExported**

	- Aggregation: **Single event**

	- Scope: **All users**

	- Email recipients: **TenantAdmins**

6. If all settings are correct, select the **Close** button to close the **eDiscovery search started or exported** pane.

7. In the **Alert policies** list, select the **ellipsis** icon that appears on the far right side of **eDiscovery search started or exported** row, and then in the menu that appears, select **Edit**.

8. An **Edit recipients** pane appears. This window enables you to edit the email recipients who are notified when this policy is triggered. You will not change the value here; instead, the purpose of this step is to show you how to change the recipient list in your real-world implementations for any of the default system policies. Select **Close**.

You have now reviewed the default Microsoft 365 eDiscovery alert that notifies tenant admins when an eDiscovery search is created or exported.

### Task 2 – Validate the default eDiscovery Alert

To test this default alert, Holly Dickson will create an eDiscovery search. This activity should trigger the alert policy, which should send an alert notification email to all Tenant Admins. Holly is a Global admin, who by default are members of the Tenant Admin group; therefore, she should receive the email notification generated by this alert. 

1. You should still be logged into the Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) as the **Admin,** and you should still be logged into Microsoft 365 as **Holly Dickson**. 

2. In your **Microsoft Edge** browser, select the **Microsoft 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center** tab. 

3. In the **Microsoft 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Search**, and then under it, select **Content search**.

4. The **Content search** window has two tabs - a **Searches** tab and an **Exports** tab. The **Searches** tab is displayed by default. Select the **+New search** button. .

5. In the **Search query** pane that appears, enter **Confidential** in the **Enter keywords** field.

6. In the **Locations** section, select the **Specific locations** option and then select **Modify**. This opens the **Modify locations** window. There are three groups of locations. Turn the toggle switch **On** (if necessary) for the first group, but turn the toggle switches **Off** for the other two. At least one group must be set to **On**; otherwise, you will receive an error. Select **Save**. <br/>

	**Note:** While you could have simply selected the **All locations** option, you were asked to select a specific set of locations just so that you could see all the various locations that can possibly be searched in an eDiscovery search.

7. Select **Save**. In the **Save search** pane that appears, enter **Confidential search** in the **Name** field and then select **Save**.  <br/>

	**Important:** When you save a new search, the system saves the search and then immediately runs it. By saving this eDiscovery search, the eDiscovery alert should be triggered, thereby creating an email notification that should be sent to the Inbox of all users with tenant admin permissions. You do NOT have to wait for the Search to finish before testing whether the alert sent the email notification. The alert notification system will process the email at the time the search is saved. <br/>
	
	Do NOT wait for the search to finish. Proceed to the next step.
	
8. For the purpose of this lab, you should cancel the search to remove the overhead from your limited system resources. The screen should currently indicate that it is **Searching**. Select the **Cancel** button to stop the search, and then select **Yes** to confirm the cancellation. Canceling the search takes a minute or so to complete. 
	
9. To test this alert, open a new tab in your browser and go to **Outlook on the web** by entering the following URL in the address pane: **https://outlook.office365.com**

10. When Outlook opens, if the language and time zone window appears, select your Language and Time zone and select **Save**. 

11. Monitor Holly's Inbox for the email that was automatically sent by the Alerts notification system to inform her that an eDiscovery search was created or exported. Once the email is received, open it and review the contents, then close the message. <br/>

	**Note:** It may take up to 10 minutes or so before the email arrives in Holly's Inbox.

12. In your **Edge** browser, switch back to the **Microsoft 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center** tab and under the **Search** group in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Audit Log Search**. 

13. At the bottom of the page, select the **Search** button to display all recent activity. This will display the activity that created this alert. <br/>

	**Note:** In the list of search results, note how the **User** for the prior alerts is listed as Holly, while the user for the eDiscovery alert is listed as **Service Account**. This is because the eDiscovery alert is a default system alert rather than a custom alert created by an individual user.

14. In your browser, leave the Outlook tab (**Mail-Holly Dickson - Outlook**) open as you will use it shortly in another lab exercise. Leave all your other browser tabs open as well.

15. Leave your Client VMs open for the remaining labs in this course.  

You have now successfully tested the Microsoft 365 eDiscovery system alert that monitors the creation of an eDiscovery search or the export of data from a completed search.


# End of Lab 3
